Categories: docs/deployment:10
Summary: Heroku was one of the first "Platform as a Service" cloud based hosting platforms. Running Nesta on Heroku is easy, and it's probably fair to say that most Nesta sites are deployed on Heroku.

# Running on Heroku

Deploying Nesta to Heroku works out of the box. If you haven't already
done so, [signup for Heroku][heroku-signup] and install the [heroku
toolbelt][toolbelt].

[heroku-signup]: http://api.heroku.com/signup
[toolbelt]: http://toolbelt.heroku.com

Before you can deploy your site you need to get it running properly on
your own computer. You'll also need to check it into a Git repository.
If you've already done that you can skip ahead, but just in case we'll
cover it here quickly with an example.

## Setting up git

When you generate a new Nesta site you can tell Nesta that you want to
manage it with Git by adding the `--git` switch:

    $ nesta new mysite.com --git

The `--git` switch just creates a new repository for you, and commits
the freshly created site. If you're deploying a site that has been
created without a git repository, create a git repository as follows:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ git init
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Initial commit"

You'll need to store your content in a `content` directory directly
inside the top level Nesta directory (which is the default) and check it
into the same repository as your copy of Nesta. If you've not already
written any content create a test article now and add it to your Git
repository:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ mkdir -p content/pages
    $ cat > content/pages/test.mdown
    Date: 16 June 2010
    
    # Demo article
    
    Woohoo!
    ^D  # <- press Ctrl-D

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Added an article."

## Running the site locally

Start the server up locally (run `mr-sparkle config.ru`) and make sure you
can browse to `http://localhost:8080/`. You should be able to see your
content.

## Deploying to Heroku

There's no need to push these changes to a remote git repository such as
GitHub -- we're going to cut out the middle man and push your repository
directly to Heroku.

Make sure that you fill in `config/config.yml` properly (the most
important thing is to ensure that caching is off, as we can't write to
Heroku's file system).

    $ heroku create
    $ git push heroku master

Check whether your deployment worked by visiting your special Heroku URL
(which you can find in the output of the `heroku info` command). See the
Heroku documentation for instructions on how to [change this
URL][renaming-apps] to something more suitable.

To run Nesta on your own domain you just need to configure [Heroku's
custom domains][custom-domains].

[renaming-apps]: http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/renaming-apps
[custom-domains]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/custom-domains

That's it, you're done.

**A note on caching:** Experienced Heroku users may be wondering whether
Nesta automatically enables any HTTP compliant caching on Heroku. The
answer is "not yet", but it's [under&nbsp;discussion][issue-9]. In the
meantime, as Nesta is a simple Sinatra app you can configure caching
just as you would for any other Sinatra app.

[issue-9]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/issues/9
