Categories: docs/deployment:9
Summary: OpenShift is a free auto-scaling "Platform as a Service" cloud based hosting platform from RedHat. Because it supports Ruby, you can install Nesta on it easily.

# Running on OpenShift

[OpenShift][] is a free auto-scaling "Platform as a Service" cloud based
hosting platform from RedHat. Because it supports Ruby, you can install
Nesta on it easily.

[OpenShift]: http://openshift.redhat.com

## Getting ready

Before you can deploy your site you need to get it running properly on
your own computer. You'll also need to check it into a Git repository.

When you generate a new Nesta site you can tell Nesta that you want to
manage it with Git by adding the `--git` switch:

    $ nesta new mysite.com --git

The `--git` switch just creates a new repository for you, and commits
the freshly created site. If you're deploying a site that has been
created without a git repository, create a git repository as follows:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ git init
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Initial commit"

See the [quick start docs](/docs/quick-start) for more details on the
above.

If you haven't already done so, install the Ruby gem that contains the
client tools for the OpenShift platform, and run the setup command:
    
    $ gem install rhc
    $ rhc setup 

## Deploying to OpenShift

If you don't already have an app setup for your site on OpenShift,
create a remote ruby-1.9 application with `rhc`:

    $ rhc app create -a mysite -t ruby-1.9

The `rhc app create` command will print out the URL of your
application's Git repository on OpenShift (it will start with `ssh://`).

We need to add that remote repository to our site:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ git remote add origin \
        ssh://abcdefgh1234@mysite-namespace.rhcloudcom/~/git/mysite.git

Make sure you change the random key, "mysite" and "namespace" in the
remote URL to match the name of your app and OpenShift namespace.

Now we just need to merge your app's OpenShift template files (that
RedHat have set up for us) into our Git repository. This will do the job
for you:

    $ git pull -s recursive -X ours origin master

To deploy, just push your Nesta code back up to OpenShift. The first
time you push I'd recommend the `-u` option, which will setup your local
Git branch to track the remote Git branch; in future you can just type
`git push`.

    $ git push -u origin master

That's it. You should now be able to view your app running at
http://app-namespace.rhcloud.com.

To make more changes to your site, edit your files, commit them to your
repository and then deploy the changes with:

    $ git push origin master

## Credits

These OpenShift deployment docs grew out of the [original howto][] that
was contributed by [Igor Tirador][]. Cheers Igor!

[original howto]: http://igortirador.github.com/blog/2012/10/06/nestacms-on-openshift/
[Igor Tirador]: http://twitter.com/igortirador
