Categories: docs/config, docs/design
Summary: Themes are typically stored in Git repositories, and can be installed into the `themes` folder with the `nesta theme:install` command. Several themes can be installed at once, but only one will be active. The active theme is set in the `config.yml` file.

# Choosing a theme

Themes are typically stored in Git repositories, and can be installed
from a git repository into the `themes` folder with the `nesta
theme:install` command.

To install a theme, find the URL of the repository (you can normally cut
and past the URL from a box on the theme's GitHub page) and then run
`theme:install` like this:

    $ nesta theme:install git://github.com/gma/nesta-theme-slate

You'll need to run the command from within your web site's main
directory. Other than that, you're done. If you want to know what's
actually going on (though frankly, there's no need), read on...

## The nitty gritty details

Several themes can be installed at once, but only one will be active.
The current theme is set in `config.yml`.

Set the theme to the name of one of the folders inside the `themes`
folder. In the case of the [Slate][slate] theme, the folder is called
`themes/slate`, so you would need to put this in `config.yml` to enable
it:

[slate]: https://github.com/gma/nesta-theme-slate

    theme: slate

There's also a command that will switch the current theme between the
currently installed themes, updating `config.yml` for you:

    $ nesta theme:enable name-of-theme

If you're interested in creating your own theme, see [how to create a
theme](/docs/design/creating-themes).
