Author: Graham Ashton
Categories: docs/recipes, docs/creating-content
Date: 15 Feb
Summary: Out of the box, Nesta doesn't provide a page that lists all your old blog posts. It is however, easy to add one.

# Make a page that lists old articles

Out of the box, Nesta doesn't provide a page that lists all your old
blog posts. It is however, easy to add one.

This recipe will walk you through how to add a page to your site at
/archives that lists all your blog posts, organised by the year in which
they were written.

## A dash of Ruby

If you don't already have one, create a file called `app.rb` in your
project's directory, and paste the following code into it (if you do
have one, just add the code that follows to your `app.rb` file).

    module Nesta
      class App
        helpers do
          def list_articles(articles)
            haml_tag :ol do
              articles.each do |article|
                haml_tag :li do
                  haml_tag :a, article.heading, :href => url(article.abspath)
                end
              end
            end
          end

          def article_years
            articles = Page.find_articles
            last, first = articles[0].date.year, articles[-1].date.year
            (first..last).to_a.reverse
          end

          def archive_by_year
            article_years.each do |year|
              haml_tag :li do
                haml_tag :a, :id => "#{year}"
                haml_tag :h2, year
                haml_tag :ol do
                  articles = Page.find_articles.select { |a| a.date.year == year }
                  list_articles(articles)
                end
              end
            end
          end
        end
      end
    end

## Creating an /archives page

We've just defined a new Ruby method called `archive_by_year` that we can
call from within a page to insert a list of all the articles on the
site. Let's create a new file called `content/pages/archives.haml` and
add the following Haml to it:

    %h1 Archives

    %p
      Here's the full list of all the posts on the blog. I hope you enjoy
      browsing through them...

    %ol.archive
      - archive_by_year

In case you haven't used it, Haml is a clean and simple way of writing HTML.
Nesta will convert Haml to HTML for you when the page is served. Any
line in a Haml file that starts with a hyphen will be treated as Ruby,
so our `archive_by_year` method is run and the HTML it produces is
inserted inside an &lt;ol&gt; tag.

Before we load the page, let's just add a bit of CSS to style our list
of articles. You can style it however you like, but I tend to use
something simple like this:

    ol.archive {
        list-style: none;
    }

    ol.archive ol {
        list-style: disc;
    }

If you've written your own styles for your site you'll no doubt know
which file to add those styles to. If you're using the standard theme
you'll be able to add it to a file called `views/local.scss` and it'll
be loaded automatically.

If you fire up a local web server (e.g. with `shotgun`) you should be
able to see a list of all your blog posts at /archives.

## Adding navigation links

To make it easier for people to browse your archives you could add a few
links to the sidebar. I'm assuming you're using the standard theme here;
you may need to adapt the code that follows so that it works with your
site's design, but you'll get the idea.

First, create a template that will render a list of links to the years
in which we've published articles. Put this Haml in `views/years.haml`:

    %nav.archive
      %h1 Articles by year
      %ol
        - article_years.each do |year|
          %li
          %a{ :href => "/archives##{year}" }= year

Let's style it with this CSS (add it to `local.scss` again, or wherever
you put your CSS for styling the /archives page):

    nav.archive ol {
        list-style: none;
    }

Now you just need to render the `years.haml` template in a suitable
place in your sidebar. If you're using a theme that has a `sidebar.haml`
template you can copy the `sidebar.haml` file to your `views` folder,
and edit it so it looks something like this:

    #sidebar
      = haml :categories, :layout => false
      = haml :years, :layout => false

If you're not sure where to find a sidebar.haml file, these commands may
help (run them from within your site's folder):

    $ ls `bundle show nesta`/views
    $ mkdir -p views
    $ cp `bundle show nesta`/views/sidebar.haml views
