Summary: Nesta plugins are distributed as Ruby gems. They're easy to write, easy to share, and easy to install. If you can sling enough Ruby code to modify your site's behaviour in an `app.rb` file, you can write a plugin. Just read these docs first...

# Writing Nesta plugins

Nesta plugins are distributed as Ruby gems. They're easy to create and
easy to install.

## Getting started

The `nesta` command can create a new plugin for you:

    $ nesta plugin:create my-feature

It will create a new Ruby gem folder called `nesta-plugin-my-feature`
with some boilerplate Ruby files for you to add your code to.

## Quick tour of the files

There are only three files in the top level of your plugin; `.gemspec`,
`Gemfile`, and `Rakefile`.

    $ ls
    Gemfile                     lib/
    Rakefile                    nesta-plugin-my-feature.gemspec

The `Gemfile` allows you to install your gem's dependencies with
Bundler. The `Rakefile` provides a couple of Rake tasks to build and
install the gem.

All the action happens inside the `lib/` folder.

    $ ls lib/ lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature/
    lib/:
    nesta-plugin-my-feature/    nesta-plugin-my-feature.rb

    lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature/:
    init.rb     version.rb

When Ruby loads your gem it will automatically require the
`lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature.rb` file. You'll also find `init.rb` and
`version.rb` files inside the `lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature/` folder.

`version.rb` is where you specify your gem's version number.

`init.rb` is where you put your code, and is the only file you need to edit.

## Writing your plugin's code

The short version is "add everyting to `init.rb`".

### Writing your code

This is what the default `init.rb` file looks like, at the time of writing:

    module Nesta
      module Plugin
        module My::Feature
          module Helpers
            # If your plugin needs any helper methods,
            # add them here...
          end

          # Add classes and methods here, within the
          # My::Feature module.
        end
      end

      class App
        helpers Nesta::Plugin::My::Feature::Helpers
      end
    end

You can add anything you like inside the `App` class (just as you would
inside an `app.rb` file in your own site). You can also add new classes,
but its best to keep those inside your plugin's own namespace so that
they can't clash with modules from other plugins.

You can also modify existing models by "monkey patching" Nesta's own
classes. For example, the end of your `init.rb` file could end up looking
something like this:

      class App
        helpers Nesta::Plugin::My::Feature::Helpers
      end

      class Page
        def awesome?
          flagged_as?('awesome')
        end
      end
    end

If your plugin has a lot of code feel free to split it up into separate
files and require them from within `init.rb`.

### How plugins get loaded

This section is only here in case you're interested in how it works; you
can skip it without losing any sleep.

When Nesta starts up Ruby reads `config.ru`, which tells it to fire up
Bundler and read the `Gemfile`. Bundler then requires all the gems in
`Gemfile` which loads the `nesta` gem, and then your plugin's gem.

At this point Nesta hasn't really been loaded fully (that won't happen
until Ruby gets a few lines further down in `config.ru`) so it's not a
good time for a plugin to try and modify Nesta.

Instead, plugins just register themselves with Nesta so that Nesta knows
that they're there, and can load the plugin's actual code once Nesta is
ready. This is why `lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature.rb` only contains this
line:

    Nesta::Plugin.register(__FILE__)

The final step is when Nesta loads `lib/nesta-plugin-my-feature/init.rb`,
at which point you can expect all of Nesta's classes and routes to have
been defined.

## Building the gem

Open the `.gemspec` file in a text editor and replace the placeholder
summary and description with text that describes your plugin:

    $ cd nesta-plugin-my-feature
    $ vi nesta-plugin-my-feature.gemspec

Your `.gemspec` comes preconfigured with Nesta and Rake as dependencies,
so let's start by installing the bundle:

    $ bundle install

Now we can run a Rake task to build the plugin's gem. Your `.gem` file
will be created inside a `pkg/` folder.

    $ rake build

If you want to build and install in one step you can also run:

    $ rake install

## Testing and releasing your plugin

You'll obviously need a Nesta project to test the plugin with. 

Add your plugin to the site's `Gemfile` and run Bundler:

    $ cd path/to/site
    $ echo 'gem "nesta-plugin-my-feature"' >> Gemfile
    $ bundle

(You'll need to have installed your plugin locally with `rake install`
for this to work, otherwise Bundler will look for your gem on
rubygems.org.)

Fire up your site and see if the plugin works as intended.

There's an alternative to repeatedly running `rake install` in the
plugin and `bundle` in your app that you might prefer. You can tell
Bundler to install your plugin from a git repository. Update your test
site's `Gemfile` to look like this:

    gem "nesta-plugin-my-feature",
        :git => "file:///path/to/nesta-plugin-my-feature"

When you re-run `bundle` it will build and install the gem from the
latest version that is committed on the `master` branch (you can change
the branch with the `:branch` option).

The important thing to remember with this approach is to commit your
changes to the plugin before re-running `bundle`. If you're making small
iterative changes the `--amend` option to `git commit` comes in handy.

One last tip; from inside your test site you can ask Bundler to open a
gem's code in your editor. If something isn't working and you want to
check what the installed gem really contains, try this:

    $ bundle open nesta-plugin-my-feature

You can even edit the code in the gem, quickly re-test, and then copy
the code over to the plugin's git repository once you've got it working.

### Releasing as a Git repository

Releasing a gem via a git repository is easy. Push your gem to a remote
git repository (e.g. on GitHub) and then tell Bundler (in your site's
`Gemfile`) to install the gem from a git repository, like so:

    gem "nesta-plugin-my-feature", 
        :git => "git://github.com/user/nesta-plugin-my-feature.git"

### Releasing via rubygems.org

If your plugin is only for your own use, and others wouldn't find it
particularly useful, **please distribute it as Git repository** rather
than via rubygems.org. There are two reasons for this:

1. Distributing with Git is easier and quicker for you, and
2. People who are looking for useful plugins won't have to trawl through
   a smorgasbord of irrelevant gems in order to find things they can
   actually use.

This convention will also mean that we can query Rubygems to see what
plugins have been released for general use:

    $ gem list -r nesta-plugin

Okay, assuming your plugin is one for sharing, this is how you release
it to rubygems.org:

- Set the correct version number in `version.rb`.
- Run `bundle` to make sure that everything is up to date.
- Commit any outstanding changes to your Git repository.
- Run `rake release`.

You'll need to register an account with rubygems.org if you don't have
one already. The Rake task walks you through this process so I won't
repeat those instructions here.

If you've followed all the above (and it worked), Nesta now has one extra
plugin. :-)

Feedback on the process (and the experience) would be appreciated. Let
us know at <nesta@librelist.com>.
