Categories: docs/design
Summary: Start here if you'd like to base the design of your site on the default templates (or an existing theme).

# Editing the default templates

When Nesta serves a web page or CSS file, it will look for templates
inside a `views` folder in your project. If it can't find the templates
it needs in there, it'll have a look in the `views` folder inside the
currently configured theme, and failing that it'll fall back on the
default templates in the gem.

All you need to do to tweak the defaults slightly is to copy the
template that you want to change into your project, and edit it (if you
want to make a new design from scratch, see the docs on creating a
[custom design](custom-designs)).

You can have a look inside the default `views` folder with this command:

    $ ls $(gem environment gemdir)/gems/nesta*/views

Then you could copy one of those templates into your project, like this:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ mkdir -p views
    $ cp path/to/nesta-gem/views/sidebar.haml views/

You can also copy Sass files around in just the same way:

    $ cp path/to/nesta-gem/views/master.sass views/

Fire up your site with `shotgun config.ru`, and you'll be able to see
your changes in action.

There's just one gotcha. If the template you're redefining is rendered
with a layout (i.e. it's a top level template such as `page.haml`) then
Sinatra will expect to find the layout in the same directory as the
template itself. In these cases you'll also need to copy `layout.haml`
into `views`:

    $ cp path/to/nesta-gem/views/layout.haml views/

If you're only overriding templates that are rendered from within
another template (Rails calls them "partials") then you won't need a
local copy of the `layout.haml` file. You can easily identify which
templates are which by searching the Nesta code for "= haml", and
checking whether they're called with `:layout => false`.

Of course, this means that if the only template that you'd like to edit
is the layout, you'll also need to copy templates that are rendered with
`:layout => true` into the same folder, even though you have no
intention of editing them.

## Overriding themes

As mentioned above, when Nesta tries to render a template it begins by
looking in the `views` directory within your project, then (if a theme
is in use) it checks the theme's `views` directory, and finally the
`views` in the Nesta gem.

This means that you can override a theme just easily as you can override
the defaults, by grabbing a theme's templates and copying them into
`views`.
