Date: 15:00 22 Sep 2011
Categories: docs/design, docs/recipes
Summary: When Geoffrey Grosenbach released the new PeepCode blog it made quite a splash. Each article is beautifully presented with its own unique design. When he [wrote about][peepcode] how he'd based his blog on Nesta I got lots of questions asking how to achieve something similar.
Read more: Do it yourself with the blogazine plugin

# Making an Art Directed blog

When Geoffrey Grosenbach released the new PeepCode blog it made quite a
splash. Each article is beautifully presented with its own unique
design. When he [wrote about][peepcode] how he'd based his blog on Nesta
I got lots of questions asking how to achieve something similar.

Smashing Magazine have also [written about blogazines][smashing],
showcasing some impressive designs.

It's been fairly easy to achieve something similar with Nesta for a
while, but it's now easier than ever with the [blogazine plugin][].

## Installing the plugin

Open a terminal and navigate to your site's folder. Then add the
`nesta-plugin-blogazine` gem to your `Gemfile`:

    $ cd path/to/site
    $ echo 'gem "nesta-plugin-blogazine"' >> Gemfile
    $ bundle

The plugin provides a way for us to load a different CSS file for each
page.

To use it we need to modify your site's layout template.

### Creating your layout template

If you've already customised the design or have installed a theme, skip
ahead to the next section.

If your site uses Nesta's default theme you'll need to create a copy of
the themes templates in a local `./views` folder. This will do it:

    $ cd path/to/site
    $ mkdir -p views
    $ cp $(gem env gemdir)/gems/nesta-0.9.11/views/* views

Substitute "0.9.11" for the version of Nesta that you're currently
running (check with `nesta -v`).

### Updating the layout

Open your layout template in an editor (e.g. `views/layout.haml` or
`themes/slate/views/layout.haml`) and change the line that loads the
main CSS file, setting the name of the stylesheet to `#{page_design}`:

    %link(href="/css/#{page_design}.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet")

By default `page_design` will return "master" -- if your site's default
stylesheet has another name you can specify that instead:

    %link(href="/css/#{page_design('application')}.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet")

Your site should still be working as before, but is now ready for you to
start adding your designs...

## Creating a new design

For each new design, add your CSS to a new Sass or SCSS file in the
`views` folder. I'm going to assume that you've created a new design in
`views/trees.scss`.

To use your design, open the blog post that you want to apply the design
to and set the 'Design: trees' metadata at the top of the file:

    Design: trees
    Date: 10 Sep 2011
    Categories: blog/nature

    # Deciduous woodland

    Your blog post starts here...

When you reload the page Nesta should serve `trees.css` instead of the
site's default stylesheet.

**Tip:** You can share common styles between multiple designs using
Sass's ability to import other Sass files. At the top of `trees.scss`
you could write:

    @import "master"

    // Styles specific to the trees design go here...

If your page design is significantly different to the other pages on
your site and you need to serve different HTML, you can change the
[template][] and [layout][] that are used on the page.

[template]: /docs/creating-content/metadata-reference#template
[layout]: /docs/creating-content/metadata-reference#layout

## Useful resources

* [About the PeepCode blog][peepcode] (Geoffrey Grosenbach)
* [The Death of the Blog Post][smashing] (Smashing Magazine)
* [The Pros and Cons of Art-Directed Blogs][depot] (Webdesigner Depot)

[peepcode]: http://blog.peepcode.com/tutorials/2010/about-this-blog
[smashing]: http://www.smashingmagazine.com/the-death-of-the-blog-post/
[depot]: http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2011/03/the-pros-and-cons-of-art-directed-blogs/
