Categories: docs/design:-1
Summary: By default Nesta uses Haml for HTML templating, and Sass (in the Sassy format) because -- once you're used to them -- they're just better. If you'd rather change them (e.g. to Erb and the SCSS syntax) you'll need to tell Nesta how to find your templates. You can use any of the templating engines that are supported by Sinatra -- this page shows you how.

# Templating engines

All the template formats supported by Sinatra are supported by Nesta,
including Haml, Erb, Erubis, Liquid, Sass, Scss and Less. You can even
write your JavaScript in CoffeeScript if you like, and Nesta will render
it for you. See Sinatra's [template docs][template-docs] for the full
list.

To use a different template engine you'll need to modify the routes,
updating them so that they call the relevant Sinatra method to render
the output.

Copy the default routes out of the gem's `lib/nesta/app.rb` file and
paste them into an `app.rb` file in your project's folder. You can find
the path to the gem's files with this command:

    $ bundle show nesta

When you paste the routes into your `app.rb` file you need to make sure
that you're adding them to the `Nesta::App` class. Something like this
will do the job:

    $ cd mysite.com
    $ cat app.rb
    module Nesta
      class App
        get '/css/:sheet.css' do
          content_type 'text/css', :charset => 'utf-8'
          sass(params[:sheet].to_sym)
        end

        # There are more routes than this,
        # but you get the idea...
        get '*' do
          # stuff
          haml(@page.template, :layout => @page.layout)
        end
      end
    end

## An example: Using Erb

To use Erb instead of Haml you would then change the call to the `haml`
method on the last line of the `'*'` route and change it so that it
said:

    erb(@page.template, :layout => @page.layout)

To find out which methods to call for your preferred template engine,
see the [Sinatra template docs][template-docs].

## Using the SCSS format for Sass files

Nesta's default template uses the original Sass syntax, which uses
indentation rather than CSS's curly braces. Here's an example:

    body
      width: 92%
      margin: 0 auto

If you'd rather write plain CSS (but still benefit from the power of
Sass's variables, mixins and functions) you can use the SCSS format
which is a superset of CSS (in other words, it looks identical but adds
lots of juicy features if you'd like to use it). Just create a `.scss`
file and get going. 

If you'd like to base your design on the built in template (or a theme)
that uses the `.sass` format you can convert it with the `sass-convert`
script (which comes with Sass):

    $ sass-convert path/to/mystyles.sass path/to/mystyles.scss

Don't forget to move the `.sass` file out of the way so that Nesta
doesn't find it and use it in preference to your new `.scss` file.

[sinatra]: http://www.sinatrarb.com
[template-docs]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/intro.html#Views%20/%20Templates
[route-docs]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/intro.html#Routes
