Categories: docs/design
Summary: Themes are typically stored in Git repositories, and can be installed into the `themes` folder with the `nesta theme:install` command. Several themes can be installed at once, but only one will be active. The active theme is set in the `config.yml` file.

# Choosing a theme

There's a small number of themes available for Nesta, which you can find
by [searching GitHub][search] for "nesta-theme".

[search]: https://github.com/search?q=nesta-theme&type=Everything&repo=&langOverride=&start_value=1

Themes should be installed in the `themes` folder. They're normally
distributed in Git repositories; the easiest way to install them is to
find the URL of the repository (check the theme's GitHub page) and then
ask Nesta to install it for you:

    $ nesta theme:install https://github.com/gma/nesta-theme-slate

You'll need to run the command from within your site's top level
directory. Other than that, you're done.

## Changing between installed themes

There's also a command for switching between your currently installed
themes:

    $ nesta theme:enable name-of-theme

## The nitty gritty details

Several themes can be installed at once, but only one will be active.
The current theme is saved in `config.yml`.

Set the theme config setting to the name of one of the folders inside
the `themes` folder. In the case of the [Slate][slate] theme, the folder
is called `themes/slate`, so when slate is the current theme you'll find
this line in `config.yml`:

    theme: slate

If you're interested in creating your own theme, see [how to create a
theme](/docs/design/creating-themes).

[slate]: https://github.com/gma/nesta-theme-slate
