Description: Find out how to install Nesta on a Mac or Linux computer with rvm (the Ruby Version Manager).
Summary: One of the most pleasant things about Nesta is that you get to preview your articles or web design on a site running on your own computer, before you make your changes live on the Internet. Of course, this means that you need to install Nesta on your own computer. When writing the [Quick Start instructions](/nesta#quick_start) we assumed that we were talking to Ruby developers who would be familiar with installing Ruby apps, but recently Nesta has been attracting some attention from people who don't use Ruby on a regular basis.\n\nIf you're such a person, and you're having trouble getting Nesta running on your computer, these installation instructions are for you.

# Installing Nesta with RVM

One of the most pleasant things about Nesta is that you get to preview
your articles or web design on a site running on your own computer,
before you make your changes live on the Internet. Of course, this
means that you need to install Nesta on your own computer.

When writing the [Quick Start instructions](quick-start) we assumed that
we were talking to Ruby developers who would be familiar with installing
Ruby apps, but recently Nesta has been attracting some attention from
people who don't use Ruby on a regular basis. If you're such a person,
and you're having trouble getting Nesta running on your computer, these
installation instructions are for you.

We're going to take things slowly in this article, and will only be
making one assumption; that your computer already has a version of
[Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org/) installed.

To test whether Ruby is installed, try typing this in a new terminal
window (the `$` character represents the terminal's prompt and shouldn't
be typed):

    $ ruby -e 'puts "hello"'

You should see the word "hello" printed on a line of it's own.

If Ruby isn't already installed you'll see an error message that claims
that `ruby` wasn't found. This is easily fixed &ndash; head over to the
[Ruby downloads](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/) page and
download Ruby for your operating system. Follow the Ruby installation
instructions, and then return to this article.

## Installing RVM

Okay, so far so good. Now that you've got Ruby setup, we're going to
install RVM, the Ruby Version Manager. It's a very nifty script that
allows you to install different versions of Ruby (and Ruby code) in your
own personal space, without affecting any other software that is already
installed on your computer. One of the benefits of this approach is that
it makes it very difficult for you to inadvertently break any other Ruby
software that may already be installed on your system, which is why
we're using it here.

We'll use Ruby's `gem` command to install `rvm`. Enter the following
into your terminal:

    $ gem install rvm
    
You may find that your computer complains that you don't have permission
to create some files. That's okay; either run it as the root user or
(preferably, if you're on a Mac or are using a Linux distribution that
has sudo configured) re-run the command with `sudo` (you may have to
enter your own password, depending on how your computer is configured):

    $ sudo gem install rvm

When `rvm` has been installed it will print a message telling you that
you need to run `rvm-install`, which will then ask you to edit the
`~/.bashrc` and `~/.bash_profile` config files. Let's do that first.
Type the line that starts with `cat` into the terminal, then copy and
paste the following three lines into the terminal. When you're done,
press RETURN to move the cursor to a new line and press Ctrl-D.

    $ cat >> ~/.bashrc
    if [[ -s $HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm ]]; then
        source $HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm
    fi

Then add the same code to the `~/.bash_profile` file (remembering to
press Ctrl-D after you've pasted the three lines of text):

    $ cat >> ~/.bash_profile
    if [[ -s $HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm ]]; then
        source $HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm
    fi

Now we can run `rvm-install`:

    $ rvm-install

You'll now need to close the terminal and open a new one so that RVM's
configuration can take effect.

Now we can use RVM to install a separate version of Ruby (which will
never clash with your system's default Ruby installation), and the
libraries that we need to run Nesta:

    $ rvm install 1.9.2    # this will take some time; put the kettle on
    $ rvm 1.9.2 --default

## Installing Git

Nesta's source code is distributed using the Git version control system.
This means that you need to install Git before you can download Nesta.

Check whether you already have `git` installed by typing `which git` in
your terminal. If you have git setup you'll see the path to the `git`
program. If you don't, you won't see anything (as in this example
below):

    $ which git
    $

If you don't have it, head over to [http://git-scm.com/][git-scm] and
download the latest version. Follow the installation instructions that
come with it, then return to these instructions.

[git-scm]: http://git-scm.com/

## Installing Nesta

Okay, that's the hard part over with. You're now ready to follow the
instruction's in Nesta's Quick Start section, but we'll repeat them here
for you (with some extra explanations) anyway.

First off, we're going to make a new directory to keep our code in (this
step is entirely optional; you can put it wherever you like). Then we'll
use `git` to grab the latest version of Nesta:

    $ mkdir ~/code
    $ cd ~/code
    $ git clone git://github.com/gma/nesta.git

Nesta's dependencies can all be installed with a rather nifty dependency
manager named [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/ "Bundler: The best way to
manage Ruby applications"), so we'll install that and then use it to
setup the required Ruby libraries:

    $ gem install bundler
    $ bundle install

Finally, we can configure Nesta, create some sample web pages, and fire
up the server:

    $ cp config/config.yml.sample config/config.yml
    $ bundle exec rake setup:sample_content
    $ bundle exec shotgun config.ru

At this point you should be able to visit
[http://localhost:9393/](http://localhost:9393/) in your web browser,
and view your new web site.

That's it, you're done.

If your site isn't working locally and you can't work out what's gone
wrong, please send an email to the [mailing list][list] (send a blank
email in order to join).

[list]: mailto:nesta@librelist.com

If you want to get really fancy, why not [install a theme](design/theme)
and then [deploy your new site](deployment/heroku) to the Internet with
Heroku? It only takes about 10 minutes.

Failing that, have a look through the rest of the [documentation](/docs).
