Template: article
Date: 19 Aug 2011
Summary: Version 0.9.7 has been released and is available from rubygems.org. There are a handful of bug fixes and support auto detection of stylesheets written in either the Sass or SCSS formats (previously Nesta had only looked for `.sass` files by default).
Read more: See what's changed

# Nesta 0.9.7 released

Version 0.9.7 has been released and is available from rubygems.org. 

It contains two new features and a handful of bug fixes. The features
are best described as "small, but useful":

1. There's a new renderer method called `stylesheet` that can convert a
   Sass or SCSS format stylesheet into a CSS file. Previously you had to
   choose which format your site or theme would use and stick with it,
   or override Nesta's behaviour if you didn't like the default format
   (Sass). The `stylesheet` method was contributed by Isaac Cambron.

2. Menus are rendered as ordered lists. If you wanted to write CSS to
   highlight the menu item corresponding to the current page, you
   couldn't do it. In 0.9.7 you can; the current page's list item has
   the class of “current”.

You may have noticed that we've skipped version 0.9.6. This release
should have been numbered 0.9.6, but there was a bug in the version of
Rubygems that I used to build and deploy it and I had to remove the gem
from rubygems.org. I then had to rebuild the gem using a new version
number.

## Upgrading

To upgrade an existing site:

1. Update the version of Nesta that is registered in your `Gemfile` and
   re-run `bundle`.
2. Replace your `config.ru` file from the template provided in the gem.
   There's been a bit of shuffling around and a new library (called
   `nesta/env`) must now be loaded before `nesta/app` can be required,
   and this all happens inside your `config.ru` file.

In case that's not clear, these commands would have the desired effect:

    $ cd path/to/your/site
    $ sed -i '' -e '/nesta/ s/0.9.[0-9]/0.9.7/' Gemfile
    $ bundle
    $ cp $(bundle show nesta)/templates/config.ru .

## The changes

Here's the relevant section of the [CHANGES][changelog] file:

 * Nesta no longer cares whether you write your Sass stylesheets in the
   original indented Sass format or the default SCSS syntax (which is a
   superset of CSS). To use this functionality within your own site or
   theme change change any calls to the existing `sass` or `scss`
   helpers to `stylesheet`. (Isaac Cambron, Graham Ashton)

 * Add an HTML class ("current") to the menu items whose path matches
   the current page.

 * Bug fix: Strip trailing # characters from Markdown headings at the
   top of a page.

 * Bug fix: Don't render the return value of `local_stylesheet_link_tag`
   directly into the page (`haml_tag` now writes direct to the output
   buffer).

 * Bug fix: Removed trailing whitespace inside &lt;a&gt; tags generated
   by the `display_breadcrumbs()` helper.

 * Bug fix: `Nesta::App.root` couldn't be set until after `nesta/app` was
   required. Odd that, as the only reason to want to change
   `Nesta::App.root` would be before requiring `nesta/app`. Fixed by
   creating `Nesta::Env` and moving root to there instead.

[rubygems]: http://rubygems.org/gems/nesta
[changelog]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/blob/master/CHANGES
