Template: article
Date: 1 May 2011
Summary: Version 0.9.5 is out, available from RubyGems.org. It contains an impressive list of bug fixes from the community. Upgrading is as simple as updating the version number in `Gemfile` and re-running `bundle`.
Read more: See what's changed

# Nesta 0.9.5 released

I just released Nesta 0.9.5 to [RubyGems.org][rubygems].

To upgrade update the version number in your `Gemfile` and re-run
`bundle`.

It contains an impressive list of bug fixes from the community. Here's
the relevant section of the [CHANGES][changelog] file:

 * Added --version option to nesta command (Christopher Lindblom).
 * Upgraded Haml and Sass to version 3.1 (Andrew Nesbitt).
 * Updated the URL from which the Disqus JavaScript is loaded
   (Sidharta Surya Kusnanto).
 * Bug fix: Don't use parent's heading in page title if parent's heading
   is blank (Christopher Lindblom).
 * Bug fix: Removed trailing whitespace inside &lt;a&gt; tags generated
   by the display_menu() helper.
 * Bug fix: Made article_summaries render summaries for the pages
   passed into it (Robert Syme).
 * Bug fix: Empty files in the content directory would cause the site to
   crash - they are now served properly.
 * Bug fix: When pages written in Haml were included on a category page
   the default theme didn't provide access to Sinatra's helper methods
   within Haml templates. See [pull request][18] for more 
   (Carl Furrow).

This is the first release for which I didn't write the lion's share of
the code. It's been really gratifying to get so many contributions. Keep
'em coming!

[rubygems]: http://rubygems.org/gems/nesta
[changelog]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/blob/master/CHANGES
[18]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/pull/18
