Template: article
Date: 4 Mar 2012
Summary: Version 0.9.13 has been released. New features include support for Erb templates (in the views folder only, not for pages) and a `nesta edit` command that makes it easier to edit your site. Etag support is enabled in new projects.There have also been a few internal API tweaks to support the plugins that are starting to spring up. Two view helper methods (`url_for` and `base_url`) have been removed.

# Nesta 0.9.13 released

Version 0.9.13 has been released. New features include support for Erb
templates (in the views folder only, not for pages) and a `nesta edit`
command that makes it easier to edit your site. Etag support is enabled
in new projects.There have also been a few internal API tweaks to
support the plugins that are starting to spring up. Two view helper
methods (`url_for` and `base_url`) have been removed.

There have been a few contributors to this release (thanks all). Max
Sadrieh has been particularly helpful by digging through the list of
outstanding issues, submitting patches, and generally getting stuck in. :-)

## Upgrading

If your project (or theme) contains any templates that use the `url_for`
or `base_url` helpers, you'll need to replace them with a call to the
`url` helper from Sinatra. It's automatically available to you within
your templates, and takes a path. For example:

    %a{ :href => url(page.path) }= page.heading

If you've copied the `atom.haml` or `sitemap.haml` files from the
default set into your `views` folder, they'll need updating (if you
haven't actually changed them just delete them, and Nesta will find them
in the gem itself).

## The changes

Here's the [CHANGES][] file with the full list of updates:

 * The nesta script has a new command; edit. You can pass it the path
   to a file within your `content/pages` folder and it will open the file
   in your default editor (as set by the `EDITOR` environment variable).

 * The nesta script has a new option; `--bash-completion`. Run nesta
   with this option and it will print some Bash that will configure
   command line completion for the nesta command.

   You can type `nesta edit <TAB>` and Bash will complete the names of
   the files in your `content/pages` directory. :-)

   Installation instructions at the top of the Bash script.

 * Nesta can now be mounted cleanly at a path, rather than at a site's
   root, and assets and links will be served correctly.
   (Max Sadrieh, Graham Ashton)

 * The default `config.ru` file that is generated when you create a new
   project now enables Etag HTTP headers. (Max Sadrieh)

 * Two helper methods have been removed; `url_for` and `base_url`. Use
   Sinatra's `url` helper instead. They would have been deprecated rather
   than removed, but if you try and load Nesta's helpers in a Rails app
   `url_for` breaks Rails's rendering. (Max Sadrieh, Graham Ashton)

 * The `current_item?` helper has been created in `Nesta::Navigation`.
   You can override it to implement your own logic for determining
   whether or not a menu item rendered by the menu helpers are
   considered to be "current". (Chad Ostrowski)

 * The `Page` class has a new method; `body_markup`. It can be
   overridden by a plugin, and is used by the foldable plugin. (Micah
   Chalmer)

 * The `FileModel` class has a new method; `parse_metadata`. It can be
   overriden by plugins that implement an alternate metadata syntax.
   Used by the yaml-metadata plugin.

 * Erb templates in your `./views` folder, or in a theme's folder, will
   now be found when you call Sinatra's erb helper method.

 * `config.yml` can now contain Erb (and therefore inline Ruby), which
   will be interpreted when loaded. (Glenn Gillen)

 * Extended the `nesta` command to support new commands that could (for
   example) be added by a plugin. The class to be instantiated within
   the `Nesta::Commands` module is determined from the command line
   argument (e.g. `nesta plugin:create` will instantiate the class
   called `Nesta::Commands::Plugin::Create`).

 * Bug fix: Don't crash if a page's metadata only contains the key, with
   no corresponding value. You could argue this wasn't a bug, but the
   error message was difficult to trace. See #77.

 * Bug fix: Summaries on Haml pages were not marked up as paragraphs.
   See #75.

I really hope I haven't forgotten anybody. Let me know if I have and
I'll update the post/CHANGES file...

[CHANGES]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/blob/master/CHANGES
