Template: article
Date: 22 Sep 2011
Summary: Version 0.9.11 has been released. Nesta now uses Ryan Tomayko's Tilt library to manage the rendering of Markdown and Textile files inside your `content/pages` folder. That means you can choose which Markdown processor is used to render your content. The default processor is now RDiscount (in previous versions it was Maruku).

# Nesta 0.9.11 released

Version 0.9.11 has been released.

Nesta now uses Ryan Tomayko's Tilt library to manage the rendering of
Markdown and Textile files inside your `content/pages` folder. That
means you can choose which Markdown processor is used to render your
content. The default processor is now RDiscount (in previous versions it
was Maruku).

Trailing slashes are now stripped off all URLs (see [issue 60][60]).

There is also a new metadata key called 'Articles heading' (see the
[docs][]).

[60]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/issues/60
[docs]: /docs/creating-content/metadata-reference#articles_heading

## Upgrading

If you're upgrading from 0.9.7 or later, just update your `Gemfile` and re-run
`bundle`.

    $ sed -i '' -e '/nesta/ s/0.9.[0-9]/0.9.11/' Gemfile
    $ bundle

If you're upgrading from an earlier release you'll also need to get
yourself a new copy of the `config.ru` file from the template file in the
gem:

    $ cp $(bundle show nesta)/templates/config.ru .

If you'd like to continue to use Maruku to process your Markdown, see
the documentation on how to [switch back to Maruku][switching].

[switching]: /docs/creating-content/changing-the-markdown-processor

## The changes

Here's the CHANGES file with the full list of updates:

 * Use Tilt to render the Markdown, Textile and Haml in content/pages.
   RDiscount is now the default Markdown processor. To continue using
   Maruku add it to Gemfile and call `Tilt.prefer Tilt::MarukuTemplate`
   in your app.rb file.

 * Remove trailing slashes from all URLs, redirecting to the URL without
   the slash. See ticket #60 on GitHub.

 * Added the 'Articles heading' metadata key. When articles are listed
   on a category page, Nesta adds a heading above the articles based on
   the category's title (e.g. "Articles on Thing").  If you set the
   'Articles heading' metadata Nesta will allow you to override the
   entire heading for a given page.
 
 * Bug fix: require nesta/plugin automatically on load. The
   Nesta::Plugin.register method is called by plugins as soon as they
   are loaded, so we need to make it available. In 0.9.10 this method
   wasn't available until too late.

 * Bug fix: Minor updates to the files generated by
   `nesta plugin:create`.

 * Bug fix: Don't allow retrieval of the contents of any file
   within the content folder by crafting a relative path containing
   the string '../' (Louis Nyffenegger).
