Author: Graham Ashton
Date: 10 Sep 2011
Template: article
Categories: docs/creating-content, docs/recipes
Summary: Imagine for a moment that you run a blog that frequently runs articles from guest bloggers. They provide the content, and in return get some publicity and a link back to their own site from the bottom of their article. What's the best way to do this with Nesta?

# Adding author biographies to articles

Imagine for a moment that multiple people contribute to your site's
blog. In return for providing you with content, authors expect a bit of
publicity and a link back to their own site from the bottom of their
article.

Once a blogger has written a couple of posts for you you'll find
yourself wanting to re-use their biography, photo and links on each of
their articles. What's the best way to do this with Nesta?

There are a couple of approaches you can take, but I really like the way
that Adam and Wynn are doing it on [thesassway.com][].

[thesassway.com]: https://thesassway.com

Here's what you do (as Adam explained it to me):

1. Add some custom metadata to each blog post that identifies the
   author.
2. Create a Haml template for each author in your `./views` folder that
   contains the HTML for their bio, link and photo.
3. Update your page template (e.g. `views/page.haml`) and get it to
   check whether the page has an author. If an author is defined, render
   the relevant author's bio.

So your blog post might look this:

    Author: Adam Stacoviak
    Date: 28 August 2011
    Categories: adam-stacoviak, projects
    Summary: Twitter’s “Bootstrap” is a HOT topic…

    # Sass Twitter Bootstrap

    Twitter’s “Bootstrap” is a HOT topic…

Then add the markup for the author's bio to a new template in the `views`
folder. Give the template a name that can be derived from the author's
name. I'd recommend converting it to lower case and replacing spaces
with underscores, to give `views/adam_stacoviak.haml`.

Let's add a custom helper to `app.rb` that will render our author's
template for us. Define `author_biography` in your `app.rb` file:

    module Nesta
      class App
        def author_biography(name = nil)
          name ||= @page.metadata('author')
          if name
            template = name.downcase.gsub(/\W+/, '_').to_sym
            haml template, :layout => false
          end
        end
      end
    end

In your `views/page.haml` file add a snippet of Haml where you'd like to
display the bio (it might make sense to insert it after the line that
calls `@page.to_html`):

    = author_biography

If you're wondering what that optional `name` argument to
`author_biography` is there for, read on...

## Create a page for each author

If you take another look at the metadata for the example post above
you'll see that the post has been added to the adam-stacoviak category.
That means that it will automatically be listed on a page at the URL
`/adam-stacoviak`. Wouldn't it be nice if you include the bio at the top
of that page? The easiest way to do it would be to create
`/adam-stacoviak` as a Haml page in `content/pages` and include the
biography like this:

    Category: authors

    %h1 Adam Stacoviak

    = author_biography('Adam Stacoviak')

Nesta will automatically insert all the pages in the author's category
for you, beneath the bio.
