Categories: docs/creating-content:8
Summary: An article or blog post is nothing special; it's just a web page that was published at a given time.
Read more: Find out how to set the date

# Writing articles

There's really nothing special about a blog post. They're just web pages
that are published on a certain date. They might also be written on a
similar topic to other articles on our blog.

Imagine for a moment that we're writing a blog post for a site in which
we often discuss food and travel. We can easily convert our web page
into a blog post:

    Date: 6 October 2009
    Categories: food, travel

    # Breakfast in Europe

    This is a page about breakfast.

    ...

The top two lines don't appear on the page directly, but they tell Nesta
how you'd like it to treat your page.

The `Date:` line is pretty straightforward; it defines the date that
your post was published. The date is displayed on the page. It is also
used when identifying the latest articles that should appear on your
site's home page, and choosing articles to include in your site's Atom
feed.

`Categories:` refers to other pages that collate information on topics
related to this post. In the example above we're referring to pages
stored in `content/pages/food.mdown` and `content/pages/travel.mdown`. A
link to this post will automatically be included at the bottom of both
of those pages. Category pages are a great way to [structure a web
site][structure].

[structure]: http://www.wordtracker.com/academy/website-structure

See the [metadata reference](metadata-reference) for more details on
`Date` and `Categories`, or to find out what else you can do with
Nesta's metadata fields. When writing posts of more than a paragraph or
two in length you should definitely check out the `Read more` and
`Summary` options.

