Categories: docs/creating-content:-10
Keywords: markdown, markdown cheat sheet, maruku
Description: A brief summary of the most common Markdown syntax.
Read more: Find out how to create a web page with Markdown
Summary: Markdown is a wonderfully simple approach to creating web pages, written by John Gruber of [Daring Fireball](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/ "Daring Fireball: Markdown"). You get on with the business of writing (without any fancy code) and Markdown takes care of producing clean, web standards compliant HTML.

# Markdown Cheat Sheet

Markdown is a wonderfully simple approach to creating web pages, written
by John Gruber of [Daring
Fireball](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/ "Daring Fireball:
Markdown"). You get on with the business of writing (without any fancy
code) and Markdown takes care of producing clean, web standards
compliant HTML.

The Daring Fireball site provides [full documentation for
Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax "Daring
Fireball: Markdown Syntax Documentation"), but the following examples
should get you started.

## Section Headings

You can define headings of different levels when creating a web page.
The most important heading (which typically only occurs once on each
page -- at the top) is heading 1. A level 1 heading can be created with
Markdown by typing a single '#' character at the start of a line. The
heading at the top of this page was defined like this:

    # Markdown Cheat Sheet

To create a secondary heading (such as the one for this section) you
just use two '#' characters, like so:

    ## Section Headings

You can use up to six '#' characters to create a level 6 heading, but
you will probably find that you don't need to nest your headings quite
so deeply!

## Paragraphs

Paragraphs are very easy; separate them with a blank line. You can write
your paragraph on one long line, or you can wrap the lines yourself if
you prefer.

This section was marked up like so:

    Paragraphs are very easy; separate them with a blank line. You can write your paragraph on one long line,
    or you can
    wrap the lines yourself
    if you prefer.

    This section was marked up like so:

## Bold and Italics

It's **very** easy to add emphasis with **bold** and *italics*:

    It's **very** easy to do **bold** and *italics*:

You can also use underscores if you prefer:

    It's __very__ easy to do __bold__ and _italics_:

## Links

Create simple links by wrapping square brackets around the link text and
round brackets around the URL:

    [Nesta CMS](http://effectif.com/nesta)

If you want to give your readers an extra about the link that they're
about to follow you can set a link title:

    [Nesta CMS](http://effectif.com/nesta "Nesta is a superb CMS")

Titles usually appear as a tooltip when you hover over the link, and
help search engines work out what a page is about.

## Bulleted Lists

Start each line with hyphen or an asterisk, followed by a space. List
items can be nested. This text:

    * Bullet 1
    * Bullet 2
      * Bullet 2a
      * Bullet 2b
    * Bullet 3

…produces this list:

 * Bullet 1
 * Bullet 2
   * Bullet 2a
   * Bullet 2b
 * Bullet 3
 
## Numbered Lists

Start each line with number and a period, then a space. This text…

    1. Baked potato
    2. Baked beans
    3. Pepper
    
...produces this list:

 1. Baked potato
 2. Baked beans
 3. Pepper

## Quotes

If you need to cite a paragraph of somebody else's work you really ought
to attribute it to them properly by using HTML's `<blockquote/>` tag.
You can produce it with Markdown by adding a single '&gt;' character at
the beginning of the line.

This text:

    > One thing was certain, that the white kitten had had nothing
    > to do with it -- it was the black kitten's fault entirely. For
    > the white kitten had been having its face washed by the old cat,
    > for the last quarter of an hour (and bearing it pretty well,
    > considering) so you see that it couldn't have had any hand in
    > the mischief. <cite>Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking
    > Glass</cite>

...produces:

> One thing was certain, that the white kitten had had nothing
> to do with it&nbsp;--&nbsp;it was the black kitten's fault entirely. For
> the white kitten had been having its face washed by the old cat,
> for the last quarter of an hour (and bearing it pretty well,
> considering) so you see that it couldn't have had any hand in
> the mischief. <cite>-- Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking
> Glass</cite>
