Categories: docs/creating-content:10
Summary: You can create a web page by making a new Markdown, Textile or Haml file in the `content/pages` folder.

# Making web pages

Here's an example of the Markdown for a simple page:

    # British Breakfasts

    This is a page about breakfast.
    
    Common choices for a tasty breakfast:
    
    - *English:* Bacon (chunky), eggs (fried), beans...
    - *Scottish:* Lorne sausage, potato scones, haggis...
    
    ## English breakfasts
    
    The traditional English breakfast (or "fry up")...

Let's break this example down a bit:

 - Every web page should have a main heading. In Markdown you can create
   the heading tag by starting the line with a `#` character (equivalent
   to an h1 tag in HTML).
 - The heading is followed by two paragraphs and a bulleted list.
 - Finally there's a second level heading (equivalent to an h2 tag) and
   another paragraph.

See the [markdown cheat sheet](markdown-cheat-sheet) for a more in depth
look at how you can format your text.

### Choosing a URL

The page's URL will be created from the name of the file; if you save
the page to a file called `apple-pie.mdown` inside the
`content/pages/pudding/` directory, it will be served from
`http://mysite.com/pudding/apple-pie`.

If your page needs more than one word in the URL we recommend that you
separate those words with hyphens. Some people prefer underscores, but
hyphens have two clear advantages:

 1. Underscores can be confused with spaces when viewed in underlined
    hyperlinks.
 2. Underscores may lose some of the SEO benefit of user friendly URLs;
    search engines often see a hyphen as a word separator and an
    underscore as part of the word. I'm fairly sure that there's not a
    lot of demand on the net for "apple_pie".

