Description: Instructions on publishing new articles to your Nesta web site using the Git version control system.
Summary: This article will show you how to store the contents of your [Nesta](/nesta) web site in a local Git repository, and publish changes by running a single git command. It's not relevant if you're deploying to Heroku.
Categories: docs/deployment

# Publishing Articles with Git

If you're deploying to your own server and keep your pages in a Git
repository, then I definitely recommend working through what follows.
Committing and pushing your changes publishes them immediately on your
site, which leads to a smooth workflow.

We'll setup two repositories; one on your local computer (so you can
preview your changes locally before making them live) and one on your
server.

This page isn't relevant if you're deploying to Heroku as Heroku
requires that you check your content into the same repository as your
copy of Nesta (see the [Heroku deployment docs][heroku-docs]).

[heroku-docs]: /docs/deployment/heroku

## Creating a local repository

We'll make the local one first and copy any existing content into it. I
like to keep mine inside my local copy of the nesta source code and to
call it `content`. If you're going to do the same you should add
"content" to the `.gitignore` file so that you needn't worry about
accidentally checking your articles into your local copy of the Nesta
code.

On your workstation, create a `content` directory inside your `nesta`
directory:

    $ cd nesta
    $ mkdir -p content/pages content/attachments
    $ echo content >> .gitignore
    $ cd content
    $ git init

If you already have any article or category pages copy them into these
new directories now. Then add them to your git repository.

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "First commit."

## Creating a remote repository

Now we can login to the server and create the remote repository:

    $ ssh your.web.server
    $ mkdir -p git/content.git
    $ cd git/content.git
    $ git --bare init

Back on your workstation, you can tell your local repository about your
remote repository and then push all your content onto your server (this
gives you a handy backup repository, should you accidentally lose your
local repository in some kind of freak accident):

    $ cd nesta/content
    $ git remote add server ssh://your.web.server/home/user/git/content.git

Adjust the path in the above command accordingly – I like to store my
Git repositories in my home directory, but you can put this repository
anywhere you like.

## Publishing via the remote repository

You've probably noticed that Nesta doesn't know anything about your
remote Git repository yet, so it won't be able to serve any of your web
pages.

We're going to write a git hook that will copy a fresh set of pages from
your remote repository to `/var/apps/nesta/shared/content` (the default
location for an application that is [deployed with Vlad][vlad]). It will
also remove any cached `.html` files in your `public` directory. Create
a file called `hooks/post-receive` script in your remote repository and
add the contents of this script to it:

[vlad]: http://effectif.com/articles/deploying-sinatra-with-vlad "Deploying Sinatra"

    #!/bin/sh

    NESTA="/var/apps/nesta"
    SHARED="$NESTA/shared"
    rm -rf "$SHARED/content.old" "$SHARED/content.new"
    git archive --format=tar --prefix=content.new/ HEAD | \
        (cd $SHARED && tar xf -)
    mv "$SHARED/content" "$SHARED/content.old"
    mv "$SHARED/content.new" "$SHARED/content"
    find "$NESTA/current/public" \
        \( -name \*.html -or -name \*.xml \) -exec rm {} \;

You may need to adjust the path in the `NESTA` variable to suit your
setup.

You'll also need to make it executable:

    $ chmod +x git/content.git/hooks/post-receive

Now (back on our workstation) we can try publishing a new page:

    $ echo "# Test page" > pages/test.mdown
    $ git add pages/test.mdown
    $ git commit -m "Added test page."
    $ git push server master

If everything has gone according to plan you should be able to see your
new page at http://your.web.server/test.
