Categories: about
Summary: Nesta (and this web site) was designed and written by [Graham
Ashton](https://effectif.com), with help from members of the community who have submitted some great patches.
Read more: Who's contributed?

# Credits

Nesta was designed and written by [Graham Ashton](https://effectif.com),
with help from members of the community who have submitted some great
patches.

## Contributors

This list is roughly in order of when somebody made their first commit.

 - Mika Tuupola -- Textile support.
 - Matt Yoho -- A great HTTP caching patch.
 - Glenn Gillen -- Delaying the date/time at which an article is
   published (i.e. appears in the Atom feed and in your blog's list of
   recent articles), Erb parsing of config.yml, and more.
 - Wynn Netherland -- Public metadata, bug fixes, upgrading to RSpec 2.
 - Barry Keenan -- Setting default encoding on Heroku.
 - Robert Syme -- Rendering summaries of arbitrary articles.
 - Christopher Lindblom -- Added the --version option. Fixed page titles
   for pages whose parent is the home page.
 - Andrew Nesbitt - Upgraded Haml and Sass to version 3.1.
 - Sidharta Surya Kusnanto - Updated Disqus support.
 - Carl Furrow - Made helper methods available when rendering pages
   written in Haml.
 - Isaac Cambron - Added the `stylesheet` helper that renders either
   Sass or SCSS stylesheets (you previously had to hard code the flavour
   you preferred).
 - Louis Nyffenegger - Fixed bug that allowed any file within content
   folder to be retrieved if '..' was included in the URL of an
   attachment.
 - Max Sadrieh - Serving assets correctly when mounted on a path, Etag
   support in `config.ru`.
 - Micah Chalmer - Added the `body_markup` method on the `Page` class to
   make it simpler for plugins to modify the way pages are parsed. Added
   the "Link text" metadata. Refactored Nesta's URL helpers so that it
   would work nicely in a Rails app (as well as Sinatra).
 - Chad Ostrowski - Added the `current_item?` helper in the `Navigation`
   module.
 - Pete Gadomski - Made the default text used in the "Read more" link
   configurable in `config.yml`. Also made it possible to configure the
   HTML class used for the current page when rendering menus.
 - Sean Redmond - Added support for arbitrary settings in `config.yml`,
   so you can now use it to configure any features that you might add to
   your site.
 - Jake Rayson - Include useful default templates in new themes.
 - Sean Schofield - Added Microdata to the breadcrumb to help search
   engines to categorise your content.
 - Jordan Owens - Multiple bug fixes and improvements.
 - Phillip Miller - Support for writing Markdown in files with a `.md` extension.

If you've contributed and I haven't mentioned you, it's not intentional.
Drop me an email on GitHub and I'll add you in. If you've sent me a
patch, you should be on GitHub's [list of contributors][].

[list of contributors]: https://github.com/gma/nesta/contributors

## Documentation contributors

A [growing list][] have contributed to the documentation.

[growing list]: https://github.com/gma/nestacms.com/contributors
[upgrading]: /blog/upgrading-to-the-gem

If you'd like to improve the docs or contribute an article, all you need
to do is:

1. Fork this site ([gma/nestacms.com][repo] on GitHub),
2. Add your content.
3. Send a pull request (to [gma][gma]).

Cheers!

[repo]: https://github.com/gma/nestacms.com
[gma]: https://github.com/gma
